## About
"Using flexible docking and reinforcement learning to guide antibody design"
Class project for Machine Learning in Computational Biology, Fall 2023, MIT. 

## Abstract

Antibody-antigen interactions are a key component of immune responses, helping identify pathogens and defend the body against them. Furthermore, antibodies are extensively studied as therapeutic modalities for various diseases, such as cancer. Modeling these interactions is of significant clinical relevance, but it is very experimentally costly and time-consuming. These problems make in silico models for designing antibodies and predicting antigen-antibody docking especially useful. High-affinity binder design can be driven by many different approaches. Existing docking models are often able to perform simultaneous docking and sequence-structure co-design. HERN (Jin et al., 2022) generates an antibody sequence autoregressively, iteratively predicting the next residue and performing one-step structure refinement. By mimicking directed evolution, reinforcement learning also has the ability to guide in silico protein design by iterating through rounds of random mutation and candidate scoring. EvoPlay (Wang et al., 2023) demonstrates this, using reinforcement learning in its implementation of a neural network-guided Monte Carlo tree search. EvoPlay’s reward function uses residue distance and contact features, which fail to provide a complete description of peptide binding interactions. In this paper, we propose redesigning EvoPlay to support HERN as a reward model and incorporate interaction energies into the reward function. Starting with native antibodies selected from the SAbDab (Dunbar et al., 2014) database, we used the combined model to mutate residues in the CDR-H3 paratope of the heavy chain. The computed energy of the resulting structures indicates higher binding affinity than structures generated by HERN alone. In many cases, the resulting paratope also has a lower interaction energy than the native structure. Further study is needed to evaluate the quality of these paratopes, such as their stability when incorporated in the full antibody structure. By incorporating interaction energies into EvoPlay’s reward function, we are able to produce high-affinity antibody sequences, which could have significant applications in fields such as immunology.
